README.md, before:

# Keycloak SSO for Laravel

This package provides integration between Laravel and Keycloak, enabling Single Sign-On (SSO) and a convenient way to handle Keycloak tokens.

## Requirements

- PHP ^8.1
- Laravel ^8.0 || ^9.0 || ^10.0 || ^11.0 || ^12.0

## Installation

1. Require the package:
   ```bash
   composer require edoaurahman/keycloak-sso
   ```

2. Publish and configure the package:
   ```bash
   php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Edoaurahman\\KeycloakSso\\KeycloakServiceProvider" --tag=keycloak-config
   ```
   or
   ```bash
   php artisan vendor:publish --tag=keycloak-config
   ```
   This will publish a config file at `config/keycloak.php`. Adjust the settings to match your Keycloak realm, tokens, etc.

4. Set up the fields for storing tokens in your User model:
   ```php
   // in your database migration
   Schema::table('users', function (Blueprint $table) {
       $table->string('keycloak_token')->nullable();
       $table->string('keycloak_refresh_token')->nullable();
   });

   // in your User model
   protected $fillable = [
       // ...
       'keycloak_token',
       'keycloak_refresh_token',
   ];
   ```

## Usage

# KeycloakProviderService Interface

| Method                            | Description                                                 | Parameters                      | Return Type     |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------| --------------- |
| `setBaseUrl($baseUrl)`           | Set the base Keycloak URL.                                 | `string $baseUrl`               | `void`          |
| `setRealm($realm)`               | Set the Keycloak realm.                                    | `string $realm`                 | `void`          |
| `setTokenField($tokenField)`      | Set the custom token field.                                | `string $tokenField`            | `void`          |
| `setRefreshTokenField($refreshTokenField)` | Set the custom refresh token field.                  | `string $refreshTokenField`     | `void`          |
| `refreshToken($refreshToken = null)` | Refresh the Keycloak access token.                      | `string $refreshToken` (nullable)| `string|null`   |
| `request($method, $url, $data = [])` | Generic request to Keycloak API.                        | `string $method`, `string $url`, `array $data` | `array` |
| `getClientList()`                | Get Keycloak client list.                                  | *N/A*                           | `array`         |
| `getUserList()`                  | Get Keycloak user list.                                    | *N/A*                           | `array`         |
| `getUser($id)`                   | Get a single user.                                         | `string|int $id`                | `array`         |
| `createUser($data)`             | Create a new Keycloak user.                                | `array $data`                   | `array`         |
| `updateUser($id, $data)`        | Update an existing user.                                   | `string|int $id`, `array $data` | `array`         |
| `deleteUser($id)`               | Delete a user.                                             | `string|int $id`                | `array`         |
| `regenerateClientSecret($id)`    | Regenerate client’s secret.                                | `string|int $id`                | `array`         |
| `getUserRoles($id)`             | Get roles assigned to a user.                              | `string $id`                    | `array`         |
| `getRoles($clientUuid)`         | Get all roles by client or realm.                          | `string $clientUuid`            | `array`         |
| `getUsersWithRole($roleName)`    | Get all users with a given role.                           | `string $roleName`              | `array`         |
| `getUsersWithRoles($clientUuid)` | Get all users and their roles for a client.               | `string $clientUuid`            | `array`         |
| `createRole($clientUuid, $data)` | Create a role for the realm or client.                    | `string $clientUuid`, `array $data` | `array`      |
| `Other method on progress` | -                    | - |   -      |

## Example

```php
Route::get('/login-keycloak', function () {
    return Socialite::driver('keycloak')->redirect();
});

Route::get('/callback-keycloak', function () {
    $user = Socialite::driver('keycloak')->user();
    // Handle login logic...
});

Route::get('/get-users-keycloak', function (KeycloakProviderServiceInterface $keycloak) {
    return $keycloak->getUserList();
});
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue.

## License

This package is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

docs: update README to include new methods for retrieving current user sessions, clients, credentials, profile, and groups

README.md, after:

# Keycloak SSO for Laravel

This package provides integration between Laravel and Keycloak, enabling Single Sign-On (SSO) and a convenient way to handle Keycloak tokens.

## Requirements

- PHP ^8.1
- Laravel ^8.0 || ^9.0 || ^10.0 || ^11.0 || ^12.0

## Installation

1. Require the package:
   ```bash
   composer require edoaurahman/keycloak-sso
   ```

2. Publish and configure the package:
   ```bash
   php artisan vendor:publish --provider="Edoaurahman\\KeycloakSso\\KeycloakServiceProvider" --tag=keycloak-config
   ```
   or
   ```bash
   php artisan vendor:publish --tag=keycloak-config
   ```
   This will publish a config file at `config/keycloak.php`. Adjust the settings to match your Keycloak realm, tokens, etc.

4. Set up the fields for storing tokens in your User model:
   ```php
   // in your database migration
   Schema::table('users', function (Blueprint $table) {
       $table->string('keycloak_token')->nullable();
       $table->string('keycloak_refresh_token')->nullable();
   });

   // in your User model
   protected $fillable = [
       // ...
       'keycloak_token',
       'keycloak_refresh_token',
   ];
   ```

## Usage

# KeycloakProviderService Interface

| Method                            | Description                                                 | Parameters                      | Return Type     |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------| --------------- |
| `setBaseUrl($baseUrl)`           | Set the base Keycloak URL.                                 | `string $baseUrl`               | `void`          |
| `setRealm($realm)`               | Set the Keycloak realm.                                    | `string $realm`                 | `void`          |
| `setTokenField($tokenField)`      | Set the custom token field.                                | `string $tokenField`            | `void`          |
| `setRefreshTokenField($refreshTokenField)` | Set the custom refresh token field.                  | `string $refreshTokenField`     | `void`          |
| `refreshToken($refreshToken = null)` | Refresh the Keycloak access token.                      | `string $refreshToken` (nullable)| `string|null`   |
| `request($method, $url, $data = [])` | Generic request to Keycloak API.                        | `string $method`, `string $url`, `array $data` | `array` |
| `getClientList()`                | Get Keycloak client list.                                  | *N/A*                           | `array`         |
| `getUserList()`                  | Get Keycloak user list.                                    | *N/A*                           | `array`         |
| `getUser($id)`                   | Get a single user.                                         | `string|int $id`                | `array`         |
| `createUser($data)`              | Create a new Keycloak user.                                | `array $data`                   | `array`         |
| `updateUser($id, $data)`         | Update an existing user.                                   | `string|int $id`, `array $data` | `array`         |
| `deleteUser($id)`                | Delete a user.                                             | `string|int $id`                | `array`         |
| `regenerateClientSecret($id)`    | Regenerate client’s secret.                                | `string|int $id`                | `array`         |
| `getUserRoles($id)`              | Get roles assigned to a user.                              | `string $id`                    | `array`         |
| `getRoles($clientUuid)`          | Get all roles by client or realm.                          | `string $clientUuid`            | `array`         |
| `getUsersWithRole($roleName)`    | Get all users with a given role.                           | `string $roleName`              | `array`         |
| `getUsersWithRoles($clientUuid)` | Get all users and their roles for a client.               | `string $clientUuid`            | `array`         |
| `createRole($clientUuid, $data)` | Create a role for the realm or client.                    | `string $clientUuid`, `array $data` | `array`      |
| `getCurrentUserSessions()`       | Get the active sessions of the currently logged-in user.   | *N/A*                           | `array`         |
| `getCurrentUserClients()`        | Get the clients associated with the currently logged-in user. | *N/A*                      | `array`         |
| `getCurrentUserCredentials()`    | Get authentication credentials of the currently logged-in user. | *N/A*                      | `array`         |
| `getCurrentUserProfile()`        | Get the profile details of the currently logged-in user.   | *N/A*                           | `array`         |
| `getCurrentUserGroups()`         | Get the groups associated with the currently logged-in user. | *N/A*                      | `array`         |
| **Other method on progress**     | -                                                         | -                                | -               |

## Example

```php
Route::get('/login-keycloak', function () {
    return Socialite::driver('keycloak')->redirect();
});

Route::get('/callback-keycloak', function () {
    $user = Socialite::driver('keycloak')->user();
    // Handle login logic...
});

Route::get('/get-users-keycloak', function (KeycloakProviderServiceInterface $keycloak) {
    return $keycloak->getUserList();
});
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Feel free to submit a pull request or open an issue.

## License

This package is open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE.md).
